User guide for Istio TLS configuration (#11166)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/tasks/security/tls-configuration/workload-min-tls-version/index.md

---
title: Istio Workload Mininum TLS Version Configuration
description: Shows how to configure the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.
weight: 90
keywords: [security,TLS]
aliases:
- /docs/tasks/security/workload-min-tls-version/
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: yes
---

This task shows how to configure the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.
The maximum TLS version for Istio workloads is 1.3.

## Configuration of minimum TLS version for Istio workloads

* Install Istio through `istioctl` with the minimum TLS version configured.

>   The `IstioOperator` custom resource used to configure Istio in the `istioctl install` command,
>   contains an example configuration for the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The `IstioOperator` custom resource used to configure Istio in the `istioctl install` command
  contains a field for the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.
```

Author: Done.

  The `minProtocolVersion` field specifies the minimum TLS version for the TLS connections
  among Istio workloads. In the following example,
  the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads is configured to be 1.3.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ cat <<EOF > ./istio.yaml
    apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
    kind: IstioOperator
    spec:
      meshConfig:
        meshMTLS:
          minProtocolVersion: TLSV1_3
    EOF
    $ istioctl install -f ./istio.yaml
    {{< /text >}}

## Check the TLS configuration of Istio workloads

After configuring the minimum TLS version of Istio workloads,

> you can verify that the minimum TLS version was configured and work as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you can verify that the minimum TLS version was configured and works as expected.
```

Author: Thanks! Done.

    200
    {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}
If you don’t see the expected output, retry after a few seconds.
Caching and propagation can cause a delay.
{{< /warning >}}

In the example, the minimum TLS version was configured to be 1.3.
To check that TLS 1.3 is allowed, you can run the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c istio-proxy -n foo -- openssl s_client -alpn istio -tls1_3 -connect httpbin.foo:8000 | grep "TLSv1.3"
    {{< /text >}}

The text output should include:

    {{< text plain >}}
    TLSv1.3
    {{< /text >}}

To check that TLS 1.2 is not allowed, you can run the following command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c istio-proxy -n foo -- openssl s_client -alpn istio -tls1_2 -connect httpbin.foo:8000 | grep "Cipher is (NONE)"
    {{< /text >}}

The text output should include:

    {{< text plain >}}
    Cipher is (NONE)
    {{< /text >}}

## Cleanup

> *   To remove the `foo` and `istio-system` namespaces:

Reviewer: I'm wondering if we want to add an actual istioctl uninstall to remove instead of just deleting the namespace. Looking at the istioctl install page, maybe `istioctl x uninstall -f ./istio.yaml`

Author: Based on an offline discussion, the examples in content/en/docs/ops/configuration/traffic-management/network-topologies/index.md and content/en/docs/tasks/observability/distributed-tracing/mesh-and-proxy-config/index.md do not uninstall the istio. This PR follows this convention.

---
title: Istio Workload Mininum TLS Version Configuration
description: Shows how to configure the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.
weight: 90
keywords: [security,TLS]
aliases:
- /docs/tasks/security/workload-min-tls-version/
owner: istio/wg-security-maintainers
test: yes
---

This task shows how to configure the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.
The maximum TLS version for Istio workloads is 1.3.

> ## Before you begin

Reviewer: The `Before You Begin` header doesn't make sense since this session is actually showing you how to install with a minimum version. I think you can replace it with the `Configuration of minimum TLS version for Istio workloads` heading and move that paragraph up here as well.

Author: Done.

* Install Istio through `istioctl` with the minimum TLS version configured.
  In the following example, the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads is configured to be 1.3.

{{< text bash >}}
$ cat <<EOF > ./istio.yaml
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  meshConfig:
    meshMTLS:
      minProtocolVersion: TLSV1_3
EOF
$ istioctl install -f ./istio.yaml

> {{< /text >}}

Author: Revised the indention to be consistent.

> * Deploy two workloads: `httpbin` and `sleep`. Deploy these in one namespace,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Deploy two workloads: `httpbin` and `sleep`. Deploy these into a single namespace,
```

Author: Done.

for example `foo`. Both workloads run with an Envoy proxy in front of each.

> Deploy the example namespace and workloads using these commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Author: Done.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl create ns foo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@) -n foo
    $ kubectl apply -f <(istioctl kube-inject -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@) -n foo
    {{< /text >}}

* Verify that `sleep` successfully communicates with `httpbin` using this command:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec "$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -n foo -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -c sleep -n foo -- curl http://httpbin.foo:8000/ip -sS -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

{{< warning >}}
If you don’t see the expected output, retry after a few seconds.
Caching and propagation can cause a delay.
{{< /warning >}}

## Configuration of minimum TLS version for Istio workloads

> The `IstioOperator` custom resource used to configure Istio in the `istioctl install` command, above,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `IstioOperator` custom resource used to configure Istio in the `istioctl install` command,
```

contains an example configuration for the minimum TLS version for Istio workloads.

> Within, the `minProtocolVersion` field specifies the minimum TLS version for the TLS connections

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `minProtocolVersion` field specifies the minimum TLS version for the TLS connections
```

Author: Done.
